---
layout: post
title: "Second Meeting"
subtitle: "Finding a project"
date: 2015-04-08 19:00:00
author: "Stephanie"
tags:
- projects
---

<p>
Today, MITOS talked about how to find an open source project to work on and
where to get started with it. These can often be a couple of the biggest
hurdles for new contributors, so please don't get discouraged at this step!
Also, just to make this really clear, <b>you do not need an ongoing project to
join MITOS</b>. In fact, if you don't have an ongoing project, that's an
especially good reason to come!
</p>

<p>
A couple things to think about when finding an open source project:
  <ul>
    <li>Is there an open source tool or app that you already use and love?</li>
    <li>What areas or applications of computer science are you interested in [learning]?</li>
    <li>Is the community around the project active?</li>
    <li>Is the project small enough that your first contribution won't get buried?</li>
    <li>Is the project written in a language you're comfortable with?</li>
  </ul>
</p>

<p>
Some students want to start their own side-project or be involved with research on campus.
Although this may not be open source, the code may rely on open-source libraries, so many people start
contributing when they notice a bug or see a missing feature.
</p>

<p>
Also, check out our <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/projects/">Projects page</a>
for our list-in-progress. Other good places to start are the <a
href="http://openhatch.org/search/">OpenHatch list</a> and the <a
href="https://github.com/explore">GitHub Explore page</a>.
</p>

<p>
Finally, we did a walkthrough of the life of a GitHub pull request.
Conveniently, there's this great GitHub repository called <a
href="https://github.com/illacceptanything/illacceptanything">illacceptanything</a>
that (can you guess?) accepts anything. Remember that individual steps may vary
with each project, but here's the basic sequence:
  <ol>
    <li>Go to the repository's GitHub page, and <a
    href="https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/">fork</a> it.</li>
    <li>Clone your forked repository.</li>
    <li>Make a new git branch on your forked repository.</li>
    <li>Code!</li>
    <li>Push the changes to your forked repository.</li>
    <li>Submit a pull request to the original repository.</li>
  </ol>
</p>

<p>
Here's our <a
href="https://github.com/illacceptanything/illacceptanything/pull/525">demo
pull request</a>, inspired by Domino's and new member Bennett. That's all for
now. See you next week!
</p>
